everyone doing a video today around what
one thing of probably many things makes
the spyderco military knife a special
knife so you've seen it before plenty of
reviews out there etc one of the things
I'm going to talk about is the fact that
it has g10 on it right oh gee 10 big
deal right and g10 for those aren't
familiar with knife manufacturing it's
just the material for the scales or the
handles its this black material here I
don't know how it's going to show up on
focus let me see if I can get a
different view of that well that's about
the best it gets but so that's that's
what gtn is and it comes on mini knives
they don't all have to be expensive this
is a Kershaw skyline that also has g10
okay this is a Kershaw leaked g10 with a
different more aggressive texturing
benchmade nitrous striker with a more
chalky smooth g10 and the spyderco
tenacious very popular knife as well and
lastly I have a bird cara cara also has
g10 these are low end bird spyderco
knives point there is that they do not
have to be all expensive where the
military is probably the most expensive
knife in this pile so what's so great
about the military g10 it is much
thicker than what you normally see on
other knives so if you look at the
construction of it there's no really
internal steel framing
you do have this the liner lock right
here it kind of runs through and gets
thinner to the back of the knife about
it right about here but the g10 slabs
are much thicker and more sturdy than
other knives so high durability
durability no flexing at all and this is
actually the only knife that I have
where it's full g10 of a pretty thick
construction so here's a comparison
right Kershaw skyline it this is
probably the closest one I have sinned
those variable thanks that Keaton is a
hair thicker you can see the but this
one has a liner right here okay and if
you compare it to the common tenacious
right the g10 scales are pretty thin and
it's lined steel liners here okay which
makes it heavier same with the car car
steel liners sometimes the steel liners
are skeletonize are drilled out this one
is hard to see here on camera though and
then you see the leak also lined and not
drilled out okay and then finally you
have this example of the GTN it's almost
just window dressing for this knife that
nitrous striker the internal steel here
is not drilled out but it's still pretty
light but the GTN on this thing is real
thin almost fragile and I've talked
about that in videos on this
so again to summarize you know what
makes the military special right well
it's the high grade high quantity g10
again the g10 is good through all
whether it's good in water holds good
grip right it's pretty indestructible
and the military has a high volume of it
so many of you may have already known
that but just something interesting to
talk about later